Well, good morning everybody.
I haven't got the opportunity to jump
up here and say Happy Mother's Day.
So Happy Mother's Day.
To all the ladies in the room.
I always say at, at um, days like
today are a great time to remember.
Um, especially the mothers who created us.
And so mom, if you're watching,
cuz typically my mom and dad watch.
Happy Mother's Day.
Um, and then also my lovely wife.
Happy Mother's Day to you.
Thank you so much for all
you do for our kiddos.
So, um, today is special for mothers and
I think today's message, interestingly
enough, even though we're continuing
our series, Shalom Shalom, which
is God's Perfect Peace, right?
How do we find God's perfect peace
in the midst of our mental struggles?
I think worry is one of the
greatest topics to talk about
when we're talking about mothers.
Uh, I think mothers worry the most.
Doesn't any of the mothers here agree that
you guys tend to worry a little bit more?
Never.
Okay, great.
None of y'all gonna admit that.
You can rip into that later.
It's okay.
Um, but I, I think worry is something that
actually all of us deal with, uh, and it's
one that most of us probably would not.
Connect to like a mental struggle.
We would just think, isn't
that just normal to worry?
And so we'll actually learn that
it's, it's normal to worry, yes.
But it's also something that
should not cause us or, uh, to
be distracted or to cause um, us
to be consumed with these things.
And so the last couple of things that
we've talked about the last couple weeks,
technically, I guess we've been talking
about these mental struggles with anxiety.
And depression.
And so today we're gonna jump into worry.
Um, and I would say this, most of us
probably worry about things like our
finances or our health or our family or
our jobs or what's going on in the world.
Or you may even worry about what the
weather's gonna be tomorrow because
it's gonna change all of your plans.
Um, and so we worry sometimes with
the smallest things all the way
to some of the biggest things.
Here's a crazy statistic from the World
Health Organization, found that America,
uh, Americans have bigger problems, uh,
are the biggest problem with worry than
any other people in the world, right?
Americans have the biggest problem
with worry than any other people
in the world, and it's crazy to
think about a society like us in
America that has way more things.
Yet is the one that struggles
with worry the most.
Um, and I would say this,
uh, great, we won, right?
America, we won.
That's probably not something
we wanna win at, uh, when it
comes to, to something to win at.
But I would say this many of us battle
with what we would call chronic worry,
uh, something that continually is
on our mind and ever present, uh,
and it really takes our peace away.
That's what we're talking
about here, right?
Shalom.
Shalom is God's perfect.
Peace and worry is something that
still kills and destroys, um, our joy.
And really even, I would say this,
sometimes worry will even prevent
us from spiritually growing the
way that God has called us to grow.
And so just, uh, raise their hands here.
Who here has worried before?
Yes, I've got everybody to raise their
hands for something because you would be
a straight up liar unless you're a newborn
baby that doesn't worry about anything.
Okay.
And I'm not calling newborn babies liars.
I'm not gonna do that.
Okay.
But everybody else, okay.
Uh, we've all worried at some point
in our life, uh, and Barner research
says that over 60% of adults in the US
struggle with worry and stress Daily.
Daily.
Uh, so what I would just say
with this, here's just a, a
great way to look at this.
Take half the room.
This isn't quite divided,
but half this room.
Let's just shift this side.
60% of you are worried.
It's you.
You guys are great.
You came in good.
This side over here worries
and is stressed today.
And no, that can be intermixed.
But basically that's what we look
at in a room this size today.
You came in with stress and
worry on your minds and hearts.
Isn't that crazy?
You came in that way and it
may not be crazy to you because
you deal with it every day.
Um, but again, we talk about
if you're dealing with this
today, Then let's talk about it.
How do we deal with, how
do we deal with our worry?
Why do I always worry?
And so we're gonna talk through this,
we're gonna use God's word to do
that, um, and, and talk more about it.
But I think when we think about
why we wor struggle and battle with
worry, um, I, I think that it's
number one, it's gonna be crazy.
You're gonna hear me
say this, but it's true.
We battle with worry
because we're sinners.
That, that may not sound really good to
you, but we're sinners, and lemme just
explain this as sinners, which means this,
we're experiencing god's not god's best.
I always communicate this, that sin is
not experiencing God's best for our life.
Um, and that means that when we are
worrying, we're taking all of our life
and all of our worries in our control.
So worry is when we're trying
to figure out how to fix it.
Trust and faith is when we trust
and put it all in God's hands.
And so that's actually a sin when
we end up, uh, trying to control
things and do things on our own.
And again, it's taking life into our own
hands and that should not consume us.
And we say again, that worry
is just part of our lives, but
it shouldn't be, but it is.
Um, and a couple weeks ago when we
talked about anxiety, you may be
saying the same statement as well.
Isn't worry and anxiety the same thing?
No.
And here here's really
just the difference of it.
Worry tends to be
experienced in our minds.
It's something where we think on
it over and over and over again.
Um, but anxiety we tend to
experience in our bodies.
It ends up actually
going and consuming us.
And so I just wanna give
you a quick example here.
Um, you may be worried that
you're gonna miss a flight.
In the morning, if you're gonna go fly
somewhere, you're, you may be worried
you're gonna miss the flight, so you
wanna make sure you set your alarm
clock, but you may be anxious over
flying, which means it becomes something
that you can't hardly get on the plane
because you're so nervous and you're,
and it just begins to consume you.
Um, and so again, worries a little bit
more specific and, and that, and so
Matthew six today, if you wanna know where
we're going today, Matthew, chapter six,
we're gonna be in verses 24 through 34.
Um, this is where Jesus, and
I love this, Jesus addresses
worry and he says, don't worry.
Um, and, and I love this because,
you know, there's sometimes I'm
reading in God's word and I'm
like, you know, is, is this true?
But whenever Jesus says something, it's
just like I lean in a little bit more.
And today, I hope you
lean a little bit more.
So, uh, let's jump into this.
Matthew chapter six.
We're gonna again read
TW verses 24 through 34.
Here's what it says.
It says, no one can serve two
masters since either he will hate
one and love the other, or he will be
devoted to one and despise the other.
You cannot serve both God and money.
And then he says, therefore I tell
you, don't worry about your life, what
you will eat, what you will drink.
Or about your body and what you will wear.
Isn't life more than food?
And isn't the body more than clothing?
Consider the birds of the
air and birds of the sky.
They don't sow or reap or
gather into Barnes, yet your
heavenly father feeds them.
Aren't you worth more
than they can any of you?
Add one moment to his
lifespan by worrying.
I want you to lean into that verse.
Can any of you add one moment
to his lifespan by worrying?
Why do you worry about clothes?
Observe how the wildflowers and
the field grows, don't they?
Labor and spin thread yet I tell
you, not even Solomon in all of his
splendor was adorned like one of these.
And if that's how God closed the grass
of the field, which is here today
and thrown into the furnace tomorrow,
won't he much do much more for you?
You of little faith, so don't worry
saying, what will we eat or what
will we drink, or what will we
wear For the Gentiles eagerly seek
all these things and your Heavenly
Father knows that you need them.
But seek first the kingdom of God and
his righteousness, and all of these
things will be provided for you.
Therefore, don't worry about tomorrow
because tomorrow will worry about itself.
Each day has enough trouble of its own.
So let's pray.
Lord Jesus, we thank you
so much again for today.
We thank you for bringing us here.
On this special, uh,
mother's Day occasion.
And Lord, as we begin to discuss
this topic of worry, I'm so thankful
that your word brings to light
how we can address this and how
we can continue to overcome worry.
Because as we even know, Lord, there's
so many in this room that has walked
into this room with worry and stress.
Lord, I pray that you begin
to just renew their mind.
You begin to, uh, help
them see a hope in you.
And as they seek first you Lord,
that they will overcome that
worry, Lord, in their lives.
And so, Lord, we just pray
this in your heaven name.
Amen.
So what?
Not to worry about.
Right.
This is the first thing we're gonna
talk about is what not to worry about.
Um, I actually grew up, um, with my
grandma, uh, would take, usually my
grandma and grandpa would take us on
the weekends and, uh, usually the next,
uh, Monday morning, they would take
us back to our parents and my grandma
would take us in her van and originally
was in her Jeep, that she had been
in her van and she would put on this
song, Called, don't worry, don't worry.
A bee happy now.
Ooh, okay, so you don't wanna
hear me sing anymore, right?
So we used to listen to this and
when she used to like pump the brakes
to this thing, like, we loved it.
We loved it.
And so as I'm preparing this
sermon, my mind goes back to those
moments we're in those moments.
We were having so much fun in the van.
We didn't worry.
We didn't worry about anything.
And, and I look at this text
and I go, this is, I feel like
the Lord's singing to us today.
Don't worry.
Be happy now, again, that may sound
annoying to you because you don't
wanna worry and you wanna be happy.
I mean, I'm, I'm, I'm telling you
the, the times that I've said that to
myself, I don't wanna worry about this.
I wanna be happy.
I wanna, you know, and, and Nate, I
think the Lord's gonna speak to us about
what not to worry about, but then he's
gonna give us a help and a hope on what
to overcome in the midst of our worry.
And so the first thing he says, uh,
and that's why I read verse 24, because
that verse 25 says, therefore, he says,
don't worry about money, basically.
Right?
Or finances.
And then he goes on and he
talks about, don't worry about.
Basically your food or drink.
Uh, and then he goes on and he says,
don't worry about your clothing.
And then later on in verse 34, he
says, don't worry about your future.
So as pastors, we do a great
job of kind of helping all
of us remember these things.
So here's what basically Jesus said, don't
worry about your finances, your food, your
fitness, your fashion, or your future.
Don't worry about your finances,
your food, your fitness,
your fashion, or your future.
I'm pretty sure that covers pretty
much everything we deal with.
Pretty much everything we deal with.
And so what verse 25 says
is, it says, don't worry.
So everybody say that with me.
Everybody say, don't worry, don't worry.
See, we need to remember these
things in God's word as we go about
our lives, says, okay, don't worry.
But what do we not worry about?
And then I'm just gonna kinda
walk through this pretty quickly
and kind of break this down.
So again, he says, don't
worry about finances.
Typically, we worry about finances
because we have a lack of finances.
I've learned in life.
You know, I've kind of lived a little
bit of, of life at this point in the,
the corporate world and, and in ministry
and in just taking care of my family.
And I've learned the more money I make,
it seems like the more money I need.
It seems like I can never get enough.
Anybody ever feel that way?
And so I, I've, I've learned
after all these years, it's
taken years that Jesus is right.
Hey, he's always right, but he's right.
I'm, I'm, it's like I, I can't keep
worrying about finances, and I think
we typically lack finances, and
that's why we are worried about them.
But some of us may make a lot of
money and we worry about how we
should spend it or where we should
invest or what we should do with it.
And then when we buy things, I mean,
I'm telling you, I know some people
that make like 10 times as much as
me, and they have all these boats in
these houses, and they're so stressed
out because they feel so consumed
by the things in which they have.
So that may be you.
And if it's you, hey, I
wanna ride on your boat.
Call me.
Um, I'll take care of that
for you for the weekend.
Um, just joking.
So these are obviously something that
we would worry about his finances,
and so Jesus knows this, and so
it's a constant battle when we think
about worrying about money, but
Jesus says, don't worry about it.
Right?
And then we see in verse 25,
he says, don't worry about your
life, but then he gets really
specific with your life, right?
He says, don't worry
about eating or drinking.
Really, if you want to think about
it, don't worry about your body.
Uh, I use that word fitness and
some of you may be like, what?
I don't ever worry about my fitness.
Um, let's just think a
little bit about this.
Okay.
So for some, Jesus is speaking
to some who may be poor that are
worried about their next meal.
So it makes sense, but what Jesus is
telling them, if I take care of the birds
and I take care of the flowers, like.
I'm gonna take care of you.
You're my greatest creation.
So he's telling them, those who
would worry about getting food or
drink daily to not worry about it.
But you know, and I think the funniest
thing is, is those of us that the
biggest worries we have, especially
somebody, you're gonna deal with this
today, you're gonna get in the car.
And what's the question that
somebody's gonna ask you?
Where do you want to eat?
And you know what they're gonna say, UR.
And I'm gonna say, well,
I don't care either.
Well then the next thing you know, 15
minutes later we're stressed out, worried,
and in a fight and we're not talking.
And when this happens,
text me say it happened.
Okay?
So most of us worry about food
and drink in a different way, and
it becomes this, don't wanna make
decisions and it stresses you out.
And then it's just like, Oh man, it's
crazy that that's what we deal with,
but that's exactly what we deal with.
And so he is saying,
don't worry about this.
Right.
But I would even dive a little bit
deeper cuz sometimes we get consumed.
Some people in my world, again, i I
I coach, uh, CrossFit, uh, during the
week, some of the people I get around
is they get so consumed with eating
the right things, their fitness.
That they get so consumed by it, but
it seems like all day long they're like
thinking of these things and tracking
these things, and how many macros
am I eating and how much do I weigh?
And all of a sudden it consumes them that
they don't have enough or they're not
skinny enough or they're, you name it.
And we become consumed with that.
And it's not saying not to be healthy.
That's not what Jesus is not
saying, but he's saying, Hey,
don't worry about those things.
Um, and I've learned over time,
anybody ever done this before?
You go eat an expensive meal and
three hours later you're hungry.
And I'm just like, it doesn't matter
what I eat, it really doesn't matter.
Um, and so he says,
don't worry about that.
Then he goes on in, in verse uh,
25, he says, don't worry about what
you will wear, what you will wear.
Uh, anybody really focus on what you
wear specifically on Sunday mornings.
I mean, like, do you ever
spend some extra time?
Ladies, you, you ever fix
your hair a little bit longer?
No, not, not James.
He's good.
I'm telling you though, it happens.
Where this it, it's okay.
Let me just tell you.
I love this.
I like wearing gray with gray.
Britney's not in here.
I don't know where she went.
I like wearing gray with gray.
You know what she tells me every
time I put it on that does not match.
I say it matches perfectly.
She doesn't agree.
So then I have to stress
about what I wear.
I'm joking, but that's true though.
I used to actually wear an orange
shirt with red pants and then
that really was just not okay.
But sometimes we get so consumed
with what we wear that it causes
us to worry and stress because
we don't have the right clothes.
And then all of a sudden, if we took
all the time, we focused on what we
wore and spent that time with Jesus,
our lives would be transformed.
I'm just taking a side note here.
If we took all the time, we worried
about what we wore and exactly how we
looked and folks said, all on Jesus.
We could really be
transformed in our lives.
So he is saying, again, don't
worry about our clothes.
And then the last, in verse 34, he
says, don't worry about tomorrow.
For tomorrow.
Worries about itself.
Anybody ever stress and
worry about the future?
Anybody?
I think so many of us do, right?
The future of what job am I gonna have?
Am I gonna have a job?
What are my kids gonna, you
know, are they gonna grow up
and they're gonna love Jesus?
Are they gonna make the right decisions?
You know, all these different
future things that consume us,
we begin to worry about right
where we're gonna go to school.
Uh, and Jesus addresses that.
He says, do not worry about these things
because he says today has its own worries.
Right?
And he is the one that controls tomorrow.
So to hear Jesus say, don't worry about
these things may kind of frustrate
you because you worry about them.
I, I'm telling you these, these are
the things about the Bible that I.
Get frustrated with, but then I
have to kind of reconcile with
the things I get frustrated with.
The Bible is when they contradict my life.
Anybody, anybody.
Maybe I'm the only one, but
I'm reading and I'm studying
and God says, don't worry.
And I'm like, but I do.
What do I do?
And a lot of times we
don't know what to do.
And that's what I love about the Bible.
Usually it doesn't just say, don't worry.
God's giving you guidance
on how to overcome worry.
And so, so, you know,
I'm the, the same way.
So if you're saying, Hey, I walked in
here with worry and stress, I get it.
Here's what I've learned recently.
What I preach on, I tend to struggle
with within the weeks coming up to it.
I told Brittany this last
week, next sermon series, I'm,
I'm preaching on blessing.
I just wanna be blessed, like that's it.
Because it seems like over the
last couple weeks I've dealt with
anxiety, depression, and worry.
I'm like, why?
And here's what I've learned.
God's using it for the
benefit of those around me.
And he's, he's asking me this
question like you asked me this week.
He says, do you trust me here?
So let me just kind of
fill you in real quick.
So last week if you were
here, I dealt with Arick neck.
I dealt with my car breaking down
on Saturday and my hou my roof
had a leak on Sunday morning.
Uh, bad weekend.
It's totally fine.
Everybody has a bad weekend.
I get my car, so I bring my car
and they fix something on Monday,
Tuesday, I get it out of the shop.
The next day, Britney's
Transmission goes out.
I mean, literally the next day,
Britt's transmission goes out.
Gone.
Well, great.
We can't, we got a car that doesn't even
fit all of our family legally in it.
Left.
Uh, so anyways, I'm like starting
to worry and I'm literally preaching
on wor that, I mean, seriously,
the first thing comes to my mind.
Great.
I've actually gotta
apply what I'm preaching.
Like it's those moments.
And then I ask this question in my mind,
why, why are we going through this?
And I just realized God's saying this.
Do you trust me here?
Because I'm gonna, I'm just gonna, I
mean, it's, it's easy at times, like
I've given my life to you, Jesus.
I trust you with my salvation, but not
my job, not my family, not my future, not
my health, not my life, but my salvation.
I got you.
I don't worry about that.
But I'm gonna kick everything
else under control.
And so that's where I felt like right
now, the Lord is, is challenging me.
So if you're wondering, Hey,
do you struggle with worry?
Yes.
And God is teaching me to trust him
even in the midst of some crazy things.
So how do we respond?
Right?
There's too much to worry about.
How do we respond?
Um, and I would say, this is,
if I don't worry about it,
who's gonna worry about it?
And I realize that Jesus is the one
that doesn't even worry because he's
already knows what's gonna happen.
So let's gonna go on
to the next thing here.
So now we say, what do we worry about?
We already talked about that, how to not
worry, and it starts with remembering.
Let's look at verse 26.
So verse 26 says this,
um, I gotta get back here.
Consider the birds of the sky.
They don't sow or reap or
gather into Barnes yet your
heavenly father feeds them.
Aren't you worth more than these?
And then he says, can any of you add
one moment to his life about worrying?
And then he goes on about, uh,
clothing and, and all these
flowers and all these things.
And so he says, consider this.
And, and I'll just tell you
this, like, I like birds.
But I feel like I'm pretty important
compared to birds and Jesus is backing
that up and, and it really just helps me.
So we have to remember sometimes
if God is taking care of them,
won't he take care of me?
Won't he take care of my family?
Won't he take care of my health?
Won't he take care of the
relational issues that I'm
having with family or friends?
You name it.
Whatever it is, you are
more worthy than that.
And so we can learn to not worry
because we know that Jesus will
always be and has always been a
provider in our times of needs.
And, and I would look at this, sometimes
this timing may not be perfect for
you and it's because sometimes we
don't see the perspective, and I'm
remembering this over and over again.
My perspective in life is
limited, my perspective in life.
So just so you know right now,
I can see you guys' perspective.
This is what I can see.
But God sees everything.
There are so many working parts in
this world, and he's working every
one of them in such a way so that
not only he gets glory, but other
people experience him in a unique way.
And so sometimes the trials in what
you're going through, the things in which
you're worrying about is for something.
It is preparing you or the
other person for something.
It's allowing you, just like for us, in
that midst of the transmission, going
out of God saying, do you trust me here?
It's God asking that question because
it's constantly that loyalty idea.
Do you trust me here?
Do you trust me there?
And it's over and over again where we
go back to his word and we remember
if he provided for the birds, if he
provided for this, if he takes care
of that, then he'll take care of me.
And it's interesting when
you think about birds.
See, birds don't just sit
there and God provides for 'em.
Birds actually have concern, Hey, I'm
hungry, and they go do something about it.
Knowing that God will provide the food
for them or provide the nest for them.
So I really wanna talk about two words.
Number one, the difference
between concern and worry.
Concern is focusing on challenges
and it moves you to action.
So I would say this, if your
marriage is struggling, you
go to a marriage counseling.
You don't sit there and
worry about your marriage.
You go and you do something about it.
Knowing that God wants to restore
that marriage, if we think about,
Hey, I've gained 12 pounds, you don't
sit there and worry that you're gonna
continue to gain weight, you're going
to recognize that and know that God can
help you make the right decisions to
eliminate some food and to choose the
right things to help you be healthy.
So concern actually moves you to action.
In faith, knowing that God has
provided a way to handle that
worry, but worry focuses on what's
beyond your control and the results.
It results in inaction.
So I'm gonna say this again.
Worry focuses on what you cannot control,
and it causes you to inaction, right?
You begin to be consumed on it.
So let me just give you this statement.
It's stewing, overdoing, right?
It's stewing over what you're
worrying about rather than
actually doing something with it.
And that can be crippling.
Worry can become crippling in our lives
where we become so consumed by him.
And so he says this, can any one of you
add a moment to your life by worrying?
So in other words, has
anyone ever gotten better?
Like anything ever gotten
better about worrying?
Like if you worried on it,
did, did life get better?
Anybody?
No.
100% of the time when you worry, it
actually distracts you from being able to
overcome whatever you're worried about.
Let me, let me just share this with you.
100% of the time when you worry, you
will not have peace 1% of the time.
I, I like the odds of this idea of
sitting here thinking if I worry something
may come true, but if I don't worry
1% of the time, I don't have to worry.
Like it, it's God's gotta taken care of.
It's, it's not going to hold me back.
And I think that is so
important to remember.
That God is in control.
He is the one that says that he
provides for the birds of the air.
He'll provide for each one of us.
And so you may not have a password
God has provided for you, but here,
let me just remind you of this.
A lot of times when something tragic
happens, and I keep using our cars as
an example, but it could be loss of a
love one, it could be something else.
But when something happens where you begin
to worry, We end up getting so consumed
with, well, where's God at in this?
Where's God at in this?
And we forget all the time before when you
didn't have anything to worry about how
God had provided every day he was there
every day, he provided life every day.
He provided for every instance
that you used to worry
about, he provided every day.
But the moment that we begin to lose a
transmission or begin to have struggles
with other family members, the moment
that we do that, And we see that.
We wonder, where's God at?
Where's God at?
He's always been there.
He's with you in the midst of
worry and he says, don't worry,
I've got it taken care of.
Don't worry.
Trust me in this relationship that you're
having to struggle with, whatever you're
struggling with, God says, don't worry.
And so if God's gonna take care
of the birds of the ear again, how
much more will he take care of you?
And so when we are saying that, we
worry, this is a hard statement, but we
need to hear this when we say we worry.
When we do worry, we're actually
saying, God, I don't trust you.
God, I don't trust you.
I don't trust your plan.
I don't believe you're for me.
I don't believe you're good.
And that, that's hard for me to say, uh,
because I want to be like, no, but I do.
But when I worry, I'm
actually saying I don't.
And so this is a statement I've
shared before, but what we worry
about most reveals where you trust God
the least, I'm gonna say this again.
What you worry about most is
where you trust God the least.
And so again, if you think,
you know, I'm judging you, I, I
struggle with that same thing.
And that's why I tell you there's
those moments in life when things
come reigning in and you're
like, oh man, what am I gonna do?
And how are we gonna handle this?
And what are we gonna, how
are we gonna overcome this?
All this worry comes in on my life.
I have to go back to
and remember God's word.
I have to go back because it's easy
to hang out and worry the what ifs.
But God says that he'll take care of us.
And what I think is so important with this
is just like with the birds of ver, cuz I
think we have to keep thinking about this.
They don't worry about food because
they know God has prepared it for 'em.
Even if they have to search a
little longer, even if they have
to search a little longer, they
know it's going to be there.
So for us, at times, in the midst
of our worry, we have to have in
faith, know that God is going to
provide a way out, a way to overcome.
It may take a little bit
longer, and that's in his timing
because he knows what you need.
So right where you're sitting, I
want you to just begin to think
about what you've worried about.
And the reason why I want you,
I'm preparing your hearts.
I want you to begin to think about
what you've been worrying about lately.
Maybe it's a relationship
that has gone astray.
Maybe it's a, a child
that you're worried about.
Um, maybe it's your marriage.
Um, maybe it's your health or your job.
Maybe you, you fill in the blank.
Be begin to be thinking about that.
Because what will happen in
days like today is you'll say,
Hey, this is a great message.
Um, and then you're gonna walk out
and then tomorrow morning you're gonna
worry and you're gonna forget that.
So as you begin to think about worry
today, you're gonna get an opportunity
to cast that over to the Lord.
And so once we've identified what we've
worried about, what are we supposed to do?
That's always the question.
Okay.
I, I'm worried, what do I do with it?
What do I do?
And this is where we look at verse 33.
Verse 33.
Well actually, actually
it's 31 through 33.
Let's look at this together.
He says, don't worry.
So don't worry.
What, what you will eat or
what you will drink, or what
we'll wear for the Gentiles.
And really what he's saying,
Gentiles says, unbelievers.
So people who don't know Jesus, Worry
about these things, but if you came
into this room and know Jesus, or if
you haven't given your life to Jesus and
you want to, if you have a relationship
with Jesus, he says, then you don't
need to worry about these things.
He says, the Gentiles eagerly seek these
things and your heavenly Father knows
you need them, but seek first the kingdom
of God and his righteousness, and all of
these things will be provided for you.
I underlined the word all because
there, you know, it's those moments
where I'm like, well, sometimes, right?
No, he says All.
Will be provided for you.
Does this mean that we're gonna be poured
out blessing where we now have $10,000
in our bank account whenever we go home?
Probably not.
That's not what he's saying.
That if I just seek firstly Kingdom,
my Godd, my, you know, credit score's
gonna go up and my family's gonna come
over and say, Hey, I am totally wrong.
I, you know, that, that may
happen, it could, that's not
exactly what he's saying.
And my neck thing is
just totally twisted now.
Um, sorry, side note.
So whenever you're worried, whenever
you're consumed with, with whatever
you're stressed about, he says
to seek first the kingdom of God.
So when I ask this question
is, are you seeking first God?
I mean, I, I think that's the simple part.
Today, if we wanna talk
about this, I worry.
And I don't know how to overcome worry.
What do I do?
Seek first God?
Now the question is, are you?
For those of you that walked in this
room, you may say, I walked in and I've
been a believer of Jesus for 27 years.
50 years, one month.
Yeah.
I put God first in my life.
But do you, do I?
I mean, in writing this message,
I had to truly ask that question.
Seek first the kingdom of God.
You know what?
Wanna know what a lot
of my days look like?
I'm like rolling outta bed, running late.
And I'm rushing to get in the
shower and put on the right
clothes because they didn't match.
And I'm hungry, so I gotta get food or
I've gotta stop by somewhere and get food,
which is gonna make me late for work.
And all of a sudden my day's
gone on and I'm seeking first
food, water, what I'm wearing.
Does that sound familiar to you?
Does anybody else do that?
Because we're so consumed with seeking
First what we have going on in our
lives, which causes the worry, and so in
saying, seek first the kingdom of God.
Seek first Jesus, when you
wake up, seek first Jesus.
When you have a worry
or a care in your life.
Where do you go whenever
something goes wrong in your life,
where it causes you to worry?
Do you go to God or do you try to fix it?
Do you go to God or do you stew on it and
begin to be frustrated and consumed by it?
That's the question that he's asking
today, that he's asking us, do
you put your trust in Jesus or do
you put your trust in Jesus last?
I mean, trust me, I, I'm, I love
having things in my control.
I love, that's just me.
I'm a control person.
But typically, so something happens and
I'm like, I wanna control the situation.
And then whenever it finally I
can't, that's when I go to God
and he's saying, whoa, whoa,
whoa, you got that out of place.
Seek first the kingdom of God, knowing
that he will lead you and guide you.
And as you seek God, he will lead you in
the direction to control, not control,
but to lead you to help the situation
or to walk through the situation.
So we seeking, saying, seek first
the kingdom of God above all.
And I say this over and over again.
It's not about just seeking
Jesus, it's about saying, saying
no to worry and seeking Jesus.
Sometimes we just keep
saying, I shouldn't worry.
I shouldn't worry.
And all I'm doing is
worrying about worrying.
So it's saying I shouldn't
worry because God's word says
seek first the kingdom of God.
So I'm saying no to worry
and I'm saying yes to Jesus.
It's two parts.
Two parts when we look at this.
So some of you may have just come to the
realization of the biggest problem with
your worry is that you've never really
sought Jesus or you gave your life to
Jesus and you have him at number three.
Or if you're anything like me, sometimes
I put him at number 10 and I never
get past seven in my daily tasks or
my daily process, or my daily times of
worrying, and I've already done seven
other things to try to fix this worry,
and God's ate and I didn't get there.
Some of you may have realized that today.
And it's upon us to move and to cry
out to God and to ask him to help us.
So the question is, is this is if
I put my hope and trust in Jesus to
take care of what I'm worried about,
what's going to happen to worry?
What's going to happen to worry?
I wanna give you three things
before we head into imitation.
Three things that will happen
when you worry Number one.
When you begin to do a little bit
of research, Penn State actually
did this research, and I love this.
You'll see this in your notes.
They did some research, uh, over about a
month period where people wrote down all
the things that they were worried about.
And after 30 days, how
many of them came true?
And I think it's around 91% of the things
that they worried about never came true.
So if we take that statistic and
we think about this, when you worry
nine outta 10 times, whatever you're
worried about will never come true.
I think that's like, like that's,
that's something to think about this.
So your worry though will rob
you of peace 100% of the time.
Kind of going back to that same statistic.
So when we worry 90% of the
time, it won't come true.
So then it goes on a little
bit and it says this the other
times what's gonna happen?
Well, sometimes it doesn't
happen as bad as we thought.
You ever worry you're gonna fail a test?
I did that in college.
I'm gonna fail a test.
And I got like a 75.
I didn't fail.
You ever think that you know, your
marriage is gonna fall a bar completely
and we're gonna get a divorce?
No.
You just fought for a day
and the next day yet made up.
I mean, sometimes we worry and
consume ourselves so much and
it ends up just not being as bad
as we thought it was gonna be.
Not as bad as we thought it was gonna be.
So that's another alternative to
what can happen, right when we worry.
But the last one, and here's
one that I think is the most
difficult, what we worry about may
happen, but here's the cool part.
God will get us through
it 100% of the time.
See, if we don't worry about it, we can
now have peace, God's perfect peace.
But when we worry about it, we're
guaranteed to lose 100% of our
peace because we've lost that.
But statistics will tell you
here that odds are the things we
worry about will not come true.
And even if they do, God will
get you through those things.
So.
So what's our response to this?
Right.
For some of us in this room, the
things we worry about, I, I can't even
imagine what you're worrying about.
It could really be some tragic things.
It could be some deep things that,
this sounds too simple to you, that
if you seek first the kingdom of
God, that he'll just take care of it.
It's that simple.
No, it's something that I would
say this, I would add this in, and
this is not me adding to the Bible.
I believe this is what Jesus is saying.
Seek first the kingdom of God every day.
This is not a one-time decision,
and I'll even say this, sometimes
it seek first the kingdom of God.
Every moment because we can't just
today, and this is my challenge to
you during invitation, it's always
the time to respond and begin to seek
the Lord and and cast off our worries.
But you may do that on Sunday.
But Monday's coming and
everybody knows what Monday is.
Mondays are Mondays.
Everybody had a Monday before and a
Tuesday and a Wednesday and a Thursday
and a Friday and a Saturday and a Sunday
and another, it's all back around again.
Okay?
So what we take today is
important to apply every day.
And every moment to keep this
in the front of our minds to
seek first thinking of, of God.
Here's the thing, uh, I understand.
Um, when you look at this and you,
you think about, uh, taking your
worry to God, um, what you're worried
about is so difficult that it's
hard to do that, but I think Jesus.
We will continue to remind you every
day that you seek him that he is better
than whatever you'll worry about.
He is way better than whatever
is consuming your life.
And so I know this is, that worry has
sucked the joy outta my life at times.
And I have, I've just come to the
conclusion recently and the last, this
really this year, and this sounds so
crazy, you've been a pastor for how long?
But it's this year that
this is my statement.
It's fine.
There has been so much that's happened
in the last year, and I'm just like,
I'm tired of emotionally going down
and then having this roller coaster
emotion up and then smaller roller
coaster down because of worry and
stress and anxiety and depress.
I'm done with it, and so you know
what it is When something happens
that I could worry about, it's fine.
It's fine.
And the reason why it's fine
is because God is not surprised
by what I'm going through.
God's not surprised by
what you're going through.
We live in a sinful and broken
world and it is difficult.
But you know where he said this?
He says, the Gentiles seek these
things and worry about these things.
And when I said the Gentiles, it is
the unbelievers people that don't know
Jesus and, and we should be broken
over people that don't know Jesus, who
worry and are consumed that when things
happen, they have nobody to go to.
But as a believer, As a father of
Jesus, we have him and we know he
is in control, and he's saying,
don't worry about your finances.
Don't worry about your food
or your fitness or your body.
Don't worry about your future.
Whatever it is that you're worrying about,
he says to seek first the kingdom of God.
I wanna challenge you to do that today
in this time of invitation, and I want
you to also just, maybe you need to say
the statement that I said this week.
If you're worried about something,
you need to ask the Lord this
question, do I trust you here?
And maybe that's what the Lord's saying.
Wherever worry, you're worrying
about, he has seen this.
Do you trust me here in this
relationship that's broken?
Do you trust me here in the future
of your life and your family?
And maybe today you lay down and you
say, I believe, but help my unbelief.
That is a hard statement because
sometimes it's hard to say that you trust.
Jesus.
So let's pray.
Lord Jesus, we thank you Lord for today.
We thank you that your,
your word is truth.
And when we know that your
word is truth, we can read it.
We can believe it in faith,
and we can experience it.
So today your word says, don't worry.
Your word says, don't worry.
And Lord, I know right now across this
room, you're filling in the blank of
whatever everyone's worrying about.
And so, Lord, as they are thinking
about those things, Lord, I pray that
right now as we continue to pray.
Lord, I pray that they are casting
their cares on you, that they
are taking those worries and that
they're handing them over to you.
That they're laying them down
and they're saying, Lord, I
don't wanna worry about this.
I don't wanna worry about
my child or my marriage.
my finances or my cars.
I don't wanna worry about my job.
I don't wanna worry about
my future and the unknown.
Whatever it is, I'm, I'm challenging
all of you in this room to just begin
to pray and to lay those things down at
Jesus' feet and say, I don't wanna worry.
I don't wanna worry.
Just take a few minutes right now and
just begin to ask the Lord to take that
worry from your heart and your mind
as we continue to pray.
Here's what I wanna
challenge you to do now.
I, I challenge you to now say this, Lord,
I've cast my worry, whatever I'm worried
about, down to you, and I'm picking up,
seeking you first in that area, seeking
you first in my marriage, seeking you
first in my finances, seeking you first in
broken relationships, seeking you first in
my future and in my job that I'm worried
about or my family member or my child.
Just begin to, to pray and
tell the Lord right now.
Lord, I'm seeking you first here.
I am placing you in the right place, not
second, not third, not after I figured
it out, but Lord, I'm seeking you first.
And so just take a few moments
to, to tell the Lord you're
seeking him first in those areas.
The last thing is we continue
to just seek the Lord.
I know there could be people in
this room that have never sought
Jesus first ever, which means you've
never put your faith in Jesus.
My pastor reminded me this so many
times before I gave my life to Jesus.
There's never a better day to give
your life to Jesus than today.
There's never a better day than to
give your life to Jesus than today.
And so my challenge is, is if you
heard this message and you struggle
with not only worry, but you struggle
with just not having a relationship
with Jesus, you don't even know what
that is, that you came in this room
as an believer that today you can
seek first God for the first time.
And so if you would like to give your life
to Jesus, if you would like to seek first.
Jesus today, you can do that.
I'm just gonna encourage you to raise
your hand, to raise your hand, to
commit that you wanna give your life
to Jesus, that you wanna put him
first in your life because you've
never done that in your life before.
Today is an opportunity to stand boldly
to say you wanna give your life to Jesus.
I wanna encourage you, every one of
you are professing that you believe in
Jesus and that you trust him and that
you want to put him first in your life.
So today, remember to take what
you've learned from God's word and
not only apply it today, but every
day in every moment of your life.
Lord Jesus, we thank you again for today.
We thank you so much for your word.
We thank you so much, Lord,
that you remind even me.
Lord this week.
I don't know why you are doing
what you're doing in my life, but
Lord, I know you're doing it for a
reason and so I'm not gonna worry.
I'm done with worry and I'm
gonna continue to seek you first.
And Lord, I pray that every
person in this room did just that.
Lord, I'm praying that every person in
this room, Responded to you and said,
Lord, that they wanna put you first
in the area where they're worrying.
Lord, I pray that this transforms
them this week, and they begin
to experience shalom, Shalom,
which is your perfect peace.
God, I pray that over every person
that may, they may experience that
a renewing relationship this week.
Lord, change our lives.
We pray this in Jesus name.
Amen.
Let's stand and let's worship.